---
title: Work, Energy, and Energy Resources
topic: Work Energy and Power in Humans
author: Urone et. al
date: December 2017
editor: Wynne Reichheld, 11 May 2018
source: https://github.com/openwebwork/webwork-open-problem-library
template_version: 1.1
type: ''
difficulty:
- TBD
randomization:
- TBD
taxonomy:
- TBD
tags:
- force
- work
- gravitational
outcomes:
- TBD
assets: ''
---

## Question Section 

Very large forces are produced in joints when a person jumps from some height to the ground. 
a) Calculate the force exerted if a(m-kg) person jumps from a(h-m) high ledge and lands stiffly, compressing joint material(dcm,cm) as a result. (Be certain to include the weight of the person.) 
b) In practice the knees bend almost involuntarily to help extend the distance over which you stop. Calculate the force exerted if the stopping distance is(db,m). 
c) Determine the ratio of the force exerted with stiff legs to the weight of the person.
ans_rule(40) 
d) Determine the ratio of the force with bent legs to the weight of the person.
ans_rule(40)

## A
Calculate the force exerted if a(m-kg) person jumps from a(h-m) high ledge and lands stiffly, compressing joint material(dcm,cm) as a result. (Be certain to include the weight of the person.) 
### Answer Section
## B
In practice the knees bend almost involuntarily to help extend the distance over which you stop. Calculate the force exerted if the stopping distance is(db,m). 
### Answer Section
## C
Determine the ratio of the force exerted with stiff legs to the weight of the person.
### Answer Section
## D
Determine the ratio of the force with bent legs to the weight of the person.
### Answer Section
## G
person jumps from a(h-m) high ledge and lands stiffly, compressing joint material(dcm,cm) as a result. (Be certain to include the weight of the person.) 
### Answer Section


## Answer Section

from random import randrange
showHint = 3

m = randrange(75,99,3)
h = randrange(0.6,0.9,0.1)
dcm = randrange(1.30,3.75,0.05)
da = dcm/100
db = randrange(0.2,0.5,0.1)
g = 9.8
W = (m*g*h)/da
Fa = W+(m*g)
Fj = (m*g*h)/db
Fb = Fj+(m*g)
Fneta = Fa/(m*g)
Fnetb = Fb/(m*g)