---
title: 'Optics - Dispersion: The Rainbow and Prisms'
author: Urone et. al
date: February 2018
editor: ''
source: https://github.com/openwebwork/webwork-open-problem-library
type: ''
tags:
- geometriclawlightopticsrayreflectionrefractionSnell
outcomes:
- TBD
assets: ''
---

## Question Section 

<b>
A parallel beam of light containing orange(610)(nm) and violet(410)(nm) wavelengths goes from fused quartz to water, striking the surface between them at a(theta_incident_degrees^circ) incident angle. What is the angle between the two colors in water? The index of refraction in fused quartz for orange light is(n_orange_quartz) and violet light is(n_violet_quartz). The index of refraction in water for orange light is(n_orange_water) and violet light is(n_violet_water).
ans_rule(40) &#176;
## C
incident angle. What is the angle between the two colors in water? The index of refraction in fused quartz for orange light is(n_orange_quartz) and violet light is(n_violet_quartz). The index of refraction in water for orange light is(n_orange_water) and violet light is(n_violet_water).
### Answer Section


## Answer Section

from random import randrange
n_orange_quartz = 1.456
n_orange_water = 1.332
n_violet_quartz = 1.468
n_violet_water = 1.342
theta_incident_degrees = sprintf("%0.1f", randrange(65,70,0.1))
theta_incident_rads = theta_incident_degrees*(pi/180)

theta_orange_rads = asin((n_orange_water/n_orange_quartz)*sin(theta_incident_rads))
theta_orange_degrees = theta_orange_rads*(180/pi)
theta_violet_rads = asin((n_violet_water/n_violet_quartz)*sin(theta_incident_rads))
theta_violet_degrees = theta_violet_rads*(180/pi)

delta_theta_degrees = abs(theta_orange_degrees-theta_violet_degrees)