---
title: Rotational Motion and Angular Momentum - Angular Momentum and Conservation
author: Urone et. al
date: January 2018
editor: Wynne Reichheld, 22 May 2018
source: https://github.com/openwebwork/webwork-open-problem-library
type: ''
tags:
- inertia
- momentum
- angular
- velocity
outcomes:
- TBD
assets: ''
---

## Question Section 

a) Calculate the angular momentum of an ice skater spinning at(angularvelocity) revs given his moment of inertia is(Inertia)(kg m^2). 
(s)
b) He reduces his rate of spin (his angular velocity) by extending his arms and increasing his moment of inertia. Find the value of his moment of inertia if his angular velocity decreases to(angularvelocityb) revs. 
c) Suppose instead he keeps his arms in and allows friction of the ice to slow him to(angularvelocityc) revs. What average torque was exerted if this takes(time) s?
ans_rule(40) N m
## A
Calculate the angular momentum of an ice skater spinning at(angularvelocity) revs given his moment of inertia is(Inertia)(kg m^2). 
### Answer Section
## B
He reduces his rate of spin (his angular velocity) by extending his arms and increasing his moment of inertia. Find the value of his moment of inertia if his angular velocity decreases to(angularvelocityrevs. 
### Answer Section
## C
Suppose instead he keeps his arms in and allows friction of the ice to slow him to(angularvelocityrevs. What average torque was exerted if this takes(time) s?
### Answer Section
## E
s?
### Answer Section


## Answer Section

from random import randrange
showHint = 3

Inertia = randrange(0.3,0.46,0.001)
angularvelocity = randrange(6.0,7.0,0.1)
angularvelocityb = randrange(1.20,1.53,0.01)
angularvelocityc = randrange(3,4,0.1)
time = randrange(12,16,1)
angularmomentuma = Inertia*angularvelocity*2*pi
MomentInertia = (Inertia*angularvelocity)/angularvelocityb
Torque = Inertia*((angularvelocityc-angularvelocity)/time)*2*pi