---
title: Kinematics
topic: 'Vector Addition and Subtraction: Graphical Methods'
author: Urone et. al
date: 26 June 2018
editor: ''
source: https://github.com/openwebwork/webwork-open-problem-library
template_version: 1.1
type: ''
difficulty:
- TBD
randomization:
- TBD
taxonomy:
- TBD
tags:
- accelerationangularcentripetalcircularforcegravitylawmotionNewtonradianrotationaluniformvelocity
outcomes:
- TBD
assets: ''
---

## Question Section 

EBOLD
Space debris left from old satellites and their launchers is becoming a hazard to other satellites.
a) Calculate the speed of a satellite in an orbit(hkm,km) above Earth's surface.
b) Suppose a loose rivet is in an orbit of the same radius that intersects the satellite's orbit at an angle of(90^circ) relative to Earth. What is the velocity of the rivet relative to the satellite just before striking it?
c) Given the rivet is(dmm,mm) in size, how long will its collision with the satellite last?
d) If its mass is(mg,g), what is the average force it exerts on the satellite?
e) How much energy in joules is generated by the collision? (The satellite's velocity does not change appreciably, because its mass is much greater than the rivet's.)

## A
Calculate the speed of a satellite in an orbit(hkm,km) above Earth's surface.
### Answer Section
## B
Suppose a loose rivet is in an orbit of the same radius that intersects the satellite's orbit at an angle of(90^circ) relative to Earth. What is the velocity of the rivet relative to the satellite just before striking it?
### Answer Section
## C
relative to Earth. What is the velocity of the rivet relative to the satellite just before striking it?
### Answer Section
## D
If its mass is(mg,g), what is the average force it exerts on the satellite?
### Answer Section
## E
How much energy in joules is generated by the collision? (The satellite's velocity does not change appreciably, because its mass is much greater than the rivet's.)
### Answer Section


## Answer Section

hkm = 900
h = hkm*1000
re = 6.37*10**6
r = h+re
G = 6.637*10**-11
Me = 5.98*10**24
dmm = 3
d = dmm*10**-3
mg = 0.5
m = mg*10**-3

vs = sqrt(G*Me/r)
vr = sqrt(2*vs**2)
t = d/vr
F = m*vr/t
E = 0.5*m*vr**2


A1 = vs
A2 = vr
A3 = t
A4 = F
A5 = E