---
title: Force and Newtons Laws of Motion
topic: Problem-Solving Strategies
author: Urone et. al
date: June 2018
editor: ''
source: https://github.com/openwebwork/webwork-open-problem-library
template_version: 1.1
type: ''
difficulty:
- TBD
randomization:
- TBD
taxonomy:
- TBD
tags:
- accelerationforcefrictionNewton
outcomes:
- TBD
assets: ''
---

## Question Section 

A freight train consists of two(etimes 10^4,kg) engines and 45 cars with average masses of(mtimes 10^4,kg). 
(a) What force must each engine exert backward on the track to accelerate the train at a rate of(vtimes 10^-2,ms^2) if the force of friction is(ftimes 10^5,N), assuming the engines exert identical forces? This is not a large frictional force for such a massive system. Rolling friction for trains is small, and consequently trains are very energy-efficient transportation systems.
(b) What is the force in the coupling between the 37th and 38th cars (this is the force each exerts on the other), assuming all cars have the same mass and that friction is evenly distributed among all of the cars and engines?

## A
What force must each engine exert backward on the track to accelerate the train at a rate of(vtimes 10^-2,ms^2) if the force of friction is(ftimes 10^5,N), assuming the engines exert identical forces? This is not a large frictional force for such a massive system. Rolling friction for trains is small, and consequently trains are very energy-efficient transportation systems.
### Answer Section
## B
What is the force in the coupling between the 37th and 38th cars (this is the force each exerts on the other), assuming all cars have the same mass and that friction is evenly distributed among all of the cars and engines?
### Answer Section
## G
engines and 45 cars with average masses of(mtimes 10^4,kg). 
### Answer Section


## Answer Section

from random import randrange
e = randrange(7.50,8.50,0.01)
m = randrange(5.25,5.75,0.01)
v = randrange(4.75,5.25,0.01)
f= randrange(7.25,7.75,0.01)
A1 = 2*e*(10**(4))*v*(10**(-2))
A2 = 45*m*(10**(4))*v*(10**(-2))
A3 = (A1 + A2 + f*(10**(5)))/2
A4 = 8*(f*10**(5))/47
A5 = 8*m*(10**(4))*v*(10**(-2))
A6 = A4 + A5