---
title: Electromagnetic Waves - Energy in Electromagnetic Waves
author: ''
date: 23 January 2018
editor: ''
source: https://github.com/openwebwork/webwork-open-problem-library
type: ''
tags:
- electricfieldmagneticintensitytemperature
outcomes:
- TBD
assets: ''
---

## Question Section 

Assume the mostly infrared radiation from a heat lamp acts like a continuous wave with wavelength(wavelength,(mu)(m).
a) If the lamp's(output,(W) output is focused on a person's shoulder, over a circular area(diameter,(cm) in diameter, what is the intensity in(kWm^2)?
 
b) What is the peak electric field strength?
 
c) Find the peak magnetic field strength.
(T)
 
d) How long will it take to increase the temperature of the(mass,(kg) shoulder by(temp^circ(C), assuming no other heat transfer and given that its specific heat is(3.47)(times 10^3)(Jkg)(^circ(C)?
## A
If the lamp's(output,(W) output is focused on a person's shoulder, over a circular area(diameter,(cm) in diameter, what is the intensity in(kWm^2)?
### Answer Section
## B
What is the peak electric field strength?
### Answer Section
## C
Find the peak magnetic field strength.
### Answer Section
## D
How long will it take to increase the temperature of the(mass,(kg) shoulder by(temp^circ(C), assuming no other heat transfer and given that its specific heat is(3.47)(times 10^3)(Jkg)(^circ(C)?
### Answer Section
## G
shoulder by(temp^circ(C), assuming no other heat transfer and given that its specific heat is(3.47)(times 10^3)(Jkg)(^circ(C)?
### Answer Section


## Answer Section

from random import randrange
wavelength = randrange(1.4,1.6,0.01)
output = randrange(180,220,5)
diameter = randrange(20,30,1)
mass = randrange(3.5,4.5,0.25)
temp = randrange(1.8,2.2,0.1)
radius = (diameter*10**-2)/2
intensity = output/(pi*radius**2)

E = intensity*10**-3
F = (((2*intensity)/((3*10**8)*(8.85*10**-12)))**(1/2))*10**-3
G = ((F*10**3)/(3*10**8))*10**6
H = (mass*0.830*4186*temp)/(output)