---
title: Linear Momentum and Collisions - Collisions in Two Dimensions
author: Urone et. al
date: January 2018
editor: ''
source: https://github.com/openwebwork/webwork-open-problem-library
type: ''
tags:
- collisionconservationelasticenergykineticlawmassmomentummotionvectorvelocity
outcomes:
- TBD
assets: ''
---

## Question Section 

<b>
A(mlight-kg) object is slid on a frictionless surface into a dark room, where it strikes an initially stationary object with mass of(mheavy,kg). The(mlight-kg) object emerges from the room at an angle of(degreelight ^circ) with its incoming direction. The speed of the(mlight-kg) object is originally(vlightbefore,ms) and is(vlightafter,ms) after the collision. 
a) Confirm that momentum is conserved in both the(x) and(y) directions.
 in the(x) direction
 in the(y) direction
b) Confirm that the collision is elastic.
ans_rule(40)

## A
Confirm that momentum is conserved in both the(x) and(y) directions.
### Answer Section
## B
Confirm that the collision is elastic.
### Answer Section
## C
with its incoming direction. The speed of the(mlight-kg) object is originally(vlightbefore,ms) and is(vlightafter,ms) after the collision. 
### Answer Section
## G
object is slid on a frictionless surface into a dark room, where it strikes an initially stationary object with mass of(mheavy,kg). The(mlight-kobject emerges from the room at an angle of(degreelight ^circ) with its incoming direction. The speed of the(mlight-kobject is originally(vlightbefore,ms) and is(vlightafter,ms) after the collision. 
### Answer Section


## Answer Section

showHint = 3

mlight = sprintf("%0.3f",0.250)
mheavy = sprintf("%0.3f",0.450)
vlightbefore = sprintf("%0.2f",2.00)
vlightafter = sprintf("%0.2f",1.50)
degreelight = sprintf("%0.1f",45.0)
radslight = pi/180*degreelight

x = (mlight)*(vlightbefore)
y = 0
KEratio = 1