---
title: Force and Newtons Laws of Motion
topic: Further Applications of Newtons Laws of Motion
author: Urone et. al
date: June 2018
editor: ''
source: https://github.com/openwebwork/webwork-open-problem-library
template_version: 1.1
type: ''
difficulty:
- TBD
randomization:
- TBD
taxonomy:
- TBD
tags:
- accelerationforcegravityNewtonvelocityweight
outcomes:
- TBD
assets: ''
---

## Question Section 

<b>Integrated Concepts:<b> A(massSI,kg) fireworks shell is fired(angle_degrees^circ) from the vertical from a mortar and reaches a height of(heightSI,m). 
(a) Neglecting air resistance (a poor assumption, but we will make it for this example), calculate the shell's velocity when it leaves the mortar. 
(b) The mortar itself is a tube(lengthSI,m) long. Calculate the average acceleration of the shell in the tube as it goes from zero to the velocity found in (a).
(c) What is the average force exerted on the shell in the mortar? Compute the ratio of this result to the shell's weight.
Force:
Ratio:ans_rule(40)

## A
Neglecting air resistance (a poor assumption, but we will make it for this example), calculate the shell's velocity when it leaves the mortar. 
### Answer Section
## B
The mortar itself is a tube(lengthSI,m) long. Calculate the average acceleration of the shell in the tube as it goes from zero to the velocity found in (a).
### Answer Section
## C
from the vertical from a mortar and reaches a height of(heightSI,m). 
### Answer Section
## G
fireworks shell is fired(angle_degrees^circ) from the vertical from a mortar and reaches a height of(heightSI,m). 
### Answer Section


## Answer Section

from random import randrange
g = 9.8

angle_degrees = sprintf("%0.1f", randrange(10, 12.5, 0.5))
angle_rads = angle_degrees*(pi/180)
heightSI = randrange(100, 125, 5)
lengthSI = sprintf("%0.3f", randrange(0.450, 0.475, 0.005))
massSI = sprintf("%0.2f", randrange(2.50, 2.75, 0.05))
weightSI = (g*massSI)

velocity_ySI = sqrt(2*g*heightSI)
velocitySI = (velocity_ySI)/sin(pi/2 - angle_rads)
accelerationSI = (velocitySI**2)/(2*lengthSI)
forceSI = (massSI*accelerationSI)
ratio = (forceSI)/(weightSI)