---
title: Uniform Circular Motion and Gravitation
topic: Centripetal Force
author: Urone et. al
date: March 2018
editor: ''
source: https://github.com/openwebwork/webwork-open-problem-library
template_version: 1.1
type: ''
difficulty:
- TBD
randomization:
- TBD
taxonomy:
- TBD
tags:
- forcegravitylawNewton
outcomes:
- TBD
assets: ''
---

## Question Section 

<b>
Astrology, that unlikely and vague pseudoscience, makes much of the position of the planets at the moment of one's birth. The only known force a planet exerts on Earth is gravitational.
a) Calculate the magnitude of the gravitational force exerted on a(mass_babySI)(kg) baby by a(mass_fatherSI)(kg) father(distance_father_babySI)(m) away at birth (he is assisting, so he is close to the child).
b) Calculate the magnitude of the force on the baby due to Jupiter if it is at its closest distance to Earth, some(distance_Jupiter_babytimes 10^11)(m) away. Take to mass of Jupiter to be(mass_Jupitertimes 10^27)(kg).

## A
Calculate the magnitude of the gravitational force exerted on a(mass_babySI)(kg) baby by a(mass_fatherSI)(kg) father(distance_father_babySI)(m) away at birth (he is assisting, so he is close to the child).
### Answer Section
## B
Calculate the magnitude of the force on the baby due to Jupiter if it is at its closest distance to Earth, some(distance_Jupiter_babytimes 10^11)(m) away. Take to mass of Jupiter to be(mass_Jupitertimes 10^27)(kg).
### Answer Section
## G
baby by a(mass_fatherSI)(kfather(distance_father_babySI)(m) away at birth (he is assisting, so he is close to the child).
### Answer Section


## Answer Section

from random import randrange
showHint = 3

G = 6.674*10**-11

distance_father_babySI = sprintf("%0.3f", randrange(0.2,0.25,0.01))
distance_Jupiter_baby = 6.29
distance_Jupiter_babySI = distance_Jupiter_baby*10**11
mass_babySI = sprintf("%0.2f", randrange(2.5,3.5,0.25))
mass_Jupiter  = 1.898
mass_JupiterSI = mass_Jupiter*10**27
mass_fatherSI = sprintf("%0.1f", randrange(80,85,1))

force_father_babySI = (G*mass_babySI*mass_fatherSI)/(distance_father_babySI**2)
force_Jupiter_babySI = (G*mass_babySI*mass_JupiterSI)/(distance_Jupiter_babySI**2)
n = (force_father_babySI/force_Jupiter_babySI)