---
title: Uniform Circular Motion and Gravitation
topic: Centripetal Force
author: Urone et. al
date: March 2018
editor: ''
source: https://github.com/openwebwork/webwork-open-problem-library
template_version: 1.1
type: ''
difficulty:
- TBD
randomization:
- TBD
taxonomy:
- TBD
tags:
- forcegravitylawNewton
outcomes:
- TBD
assets: ''
---

## Question Section 

<b>
The existence of the dwarf planet Pluto was proposed based on irregularities in Neptune's orbit. Pluto was subsequently discovered near its predicted position. But it now appears that the discovery was fortuitous, because Pluto is small and the irregularities in Neptune's orbit were not well known. To illustrate that Pluto has a minor effect on the orbit of Neptune compared with the closest planet to Neptune:
a) Calculate the acceleration due to gravity at Neptune due to Pluto when they are(4.50times 10^12)(m) apart, as they are at present. Take the masses of Neptune and Pluto to be(1.024times 10^26)(kg) and(1.309times 10^22)(kg), respectively.
(N)
b) Calculate the acceleration due to gravity at Neptune due to Uranus, presently about(2.50times 10^12)(m) apart, and compare it with that due to Pluto. The mass of Uranus is(8.681times 10^25)(kg).
(N)

## A
Calculate the acceleration due to gravity at Neptune due to Pluto when they are(4.50times 10^12)(m) apart, as they are at present. Take the masses of Neptune and Pluto to be(1.024times 10^26)(kg) and(1.309times 10^22)(kg), respectively.
### Answer Section
## B
Calculate the acceleration due to gravity at Neptune due to Uranus, presently about(2.50times 10^12)(m) apart, and compare it with that due to Pluto. The mass of Uranus is(8.681times 10^25)(kg).
### Answer Section
## G
and(1.309times 10^22)(kg), respectively.
### Answer Section


## Answer Section

showHint = 3

force_Pluto_NeptuneSI = ((6.674*1.309)/(4.5**2))*10**-13*10**14
force_Uranus_NeptuneSI = ((6.674*8.681)/(2.5**2))*10**-10*10**10