---
title: Work, Energy, and Energy Resources
topic: Gravitational Potential Energy
author: Urone et. al
date: December 2017
editor: Wynne Reichheld, 7 May 2018
source: https://github.com/openwebwork/webwork-open-problem-library
template_version: 1.1
type: ''
difficulty:
- TBD
randomization:
- TBD
taxonomy:
- TBD
tags:
- gravitational
- potential
- energy
- kinetic
- potential
- speed
outcomes:
- TBD
assets: ''
---

## Question Section 

In a downhill ski race, little advantage is gained by getting a running start. (This is because the initial kinetic energy is small compared with the gain in gravitational potential energy on even small hills.) To demonstrate this, find the final speed and the time taken for a skier who skies(L,m) along a(degree^circ) slope neglecting friction, using the following steps.
a) Determine the final speed, starting from rest. 
 
b) Determine the total time, starting from rest. 
 
c) Determine the final speed, starting with an initial speed of(vo,ms). 
 
d) Determine the total time, starting with an initial speed of(vo,ms). 
Once you have obtained all of the results, it's worth reflecting on the difference in times based on the initial speeds. The difference is sufficiently small that it's not very significant in recreational skiing, but it might make a significant difference in a professional race.

## A
Determine the final speed, starting from rest. 
### Answer Section
## B
Determine the total time, starting from rest. 
### Answer Section
## C
slope neglecting friction, using the following steps.
### Answer Section
## D
Determine the total time, starting with an initial speed of(vo,ms). 
### Answer Section


## Answer Section

from random import randrange
showHint = 3

degree = randrange(30,40,1)
rads = degree*(pi/180)
L = randrange(65,99,2)
h = L*sin(rads)
g = 9.80
vo = randrange(2.04,4.50,0.13)
vo2 = vo**2
vf = sqrt(2*g*h)
tr=(2*L)/(sqrt(2*g*L*sin(rads)))
vv=sqrt(vo2+2*g*h)
t = (vv-vo)/(g*h/L)