---
title: Heat and Heat Transfer - Temperature and Change
author: Urone et. al
date: December 2017
editor: ''
source: https://github.com/openwebwork/webwork-open-problem-library
type: ''
tags:
- Energy
- heat
- temperature
- capacity
- power
- thermal
outcomes:
- TBD
assets:
- NU_U17_14_02_010.png
---

## Question Section 

<b>
Even when shut down after a period of normal use, a large commercial nuclear reactor transfers thermal energy at the rate of(150)(MW) by the radioactive decay of fission products. This heat transfer causes a rapid increase in temperature if the cooling system fails.
a) Calculate the rate of temperature increase in degrees Celsius per second ((^circC)(s)) if the mass of the reactor core is(1.60times 10^5)(kg) and it has an average specific heat of(0.3349)(kJkg ^circC).
(s)
b) How long would it take to obtain a temperature increase of(increase ^circC), which could cause some metals holding the radioactive materials to melt?
(The initial rate of temperature increase would be greater than that calculated here
because the heat transfer is concentrated in a smaller mass. Later, however, the
temperature increase would slow down because the(5.00times 10^5)(kg) steel containment vessel would also begin to heat up.)
## A
Calculate the rate of temperature increase in degrees Celsius per second ((^circC)(s)) if the mass of the reactor core is(1.60times 10^5)(kg) and it has an average specific heat of(0.3349)(kJkg ^circC).
### Answer Section
## B
How long would it take to obtain a temperature increase of(increase ^circC), which could cause some metals holding the radioactive materials to melt?
### Answer Section
## G
and it has an average specific heat of(0.3349)(kJkg ^circC).
### Answer Section


## Answer Section

from random import randrange
showHint = 3

T = ((150*(10**6))/4186)/((1.60*(10**5))*0.08)
increase = randrange(2000,2100,1)
t = increase/T