---
title: 'Kinematics - Vector Addition and Subtraction: Graphical Methods'
author: Urone et. al
date: 9 July 2018
editor: ''
source: https://github.com/openwebwork/webwork-open-problem-library
type: ''
tags:
- angle
- displacement
- distance
- acceleration
- gravityspeed
outcomes:
- TBD
assets: ''
---

## Question Section 

a) Serving at a speed of(v,kmh) a tennis player hits the ball at a height of(h,m) and an angle(theta) below the horizontal. The baseline from which the ball is served is(d,m) from the net, which is(n,m) high. What is the angle  such that the ball just crosses the net?
b) Will the ball land in the service box, which has an outermost service line(6.40,m) from the net?
Enter "yes" or "no"
ans_rule(40)
c) What is the difference between the distance from the player to the net, and the distance from the player to where the ball lands?

## A
Serving at a speed of(v,kmh) a tennis player hits the ball at a height of(h,m) and an angle(thetbelow the horizontal. The baseline from which the ball is served is(d,m) from the net, which is(n,m) high. What is the angle  such that the ball just crosses the net?
### Answer Section
## B
Will the ball land in the service box, which has an outermost service line(6.40,m) from the net?
### Answer Section
## C
What is the difference between the distance from the player to the net, and the distance from the player to where the ball lands?
### Answer Section
## H
a tennis player hits the ball at a height of(h,m) and an angle(theta) below the horizontal. The baseline from which the ball is served is(d,m) from the net, which is(n,m) high. What is the angle  such that the ball just crosses the net?
### Answer Section


## Answer Section

from random import randrange
h= randrange(2.1,2.6,0.1)
n= randrange(0.87,0.93,0.01)
y= h-n
d= randrange(11.7,12.3,0.1)
v= randrange(168,174,1)
s = v/3.6
b = 4.9*(d/s)**2
p1 = sqrt((d)**2-4*b*(b-y))
p2 = (p1-d)/(2*b)
t = arctan(p2)
p3 = sqrt((s*sin(t))**2+19.6*h)
p4 = (p3-s*sin(t))/9.8
R = s*cos(t)*p4
A = t*180/pi
A2 = R-d