---
title: Radioactivity and Nuclear Physics - Half-Life and Activity
author: Urone et. al
date: February 2018
editor: ''
source: https://github.com/openwebwork/webwork-open-problem-library
type: ''
tags:
- half-lifenuclearradiation
outcomes:
- TBD
assets: ''
---

## Question Section 

<b>
Click
 htmlLink( alias('Half_Lives_Appendix.png'), "here", "TARGET='_blank'" )
to see a table of the elements and their atomic masses, half-lives, and percent abundances.
The(,^210Po) source used in a physics laboratory is labeled as having an activity of(activity_1uCi) <span style="font-family: 'Times'; font-size: 20px";>&mu;Ci<span> on the date it was prepared. A student measures the radioactivity of this source with a Geiger counter and observes(activity_observed) counts per minute. She notices that the source was prepared(time) days before her lab. What fraction of the decays is she observing with her apparatus? 
ans_rule(40)

## D
counts per minute. She notices that the source was prepared(time) days before her lab. What fraction of the decays is she observing with her apparatus? 
### Answer Section
## E
days before her lab. What fraction of the decays is she observing with her apparatus? 
### Answer Section
## I
<span style="font-family: 'Times'; font-size: 20px";>&mu;Ci<span> on the date it was prepared. A student measures the radioactivity of this source with a Geiger counter and observes(activity_observed) counts per minute. She notices that the source was prepared(time) days before her lab. What fraction of the decays is she observing with her apparatus? 
### Answer Section


## Answer Section

from random import randrange
showHint = 3

c = 3.7*10**10           #Becquerel to curie.
Na = 6.022*10**23

activity_1uCi = sprintf("%0.2f", randrange(3,3.5,0.05))
activity_1 = (activity_1uCi*c*60)*10**-6
activity_observed = randrange(1100,1600,50)
half_life = 138.39
time = randrange(100,125,5)

Ro = (uCi*10**-6)*BqCi
days = randrange(110,125,1)
activity_2 = (activity_1)*exp(-ln(2)*time/half_life)

ratio = (activity_observed/activity_2)