---
title: Electromagnetic Waves
topic: Energy in Electromagnetic Waves
author: ''
date: 23 January 2018
editor: ''
source: https://github.com/openwebwork/webwork-open-problem-library
template_version: 1.1
type: ''
difficulty:
- TBD
randomization:
- TBD
taxonomy:
- TBD
tags:
- powerelectricfieldintensity
outcomes:
- TBD
assets: ''
---

## Question Section 

Suppose the maximum safe intensity of microwaves for human exposure is taken to be(safe)(Wm^2).
a) If a radar unit leaks(leak,(W) of microwaves (other than those sent by its antenna) uniformly in all directions, how far away must you be to be exposed to an intensity considered to be safe? Assume that the power spreads uniformly over the area of a sphere with no complications from absorption or reflection.
 
b) What is the maximum electric field strength at the safe intensity? (Note that early radar units leaked more than modern ones do. This caused identifiable health problems, such as cataracts, for people who worked near them.)

## A
If a radar unit leaks(leak,(W) of microwaves (other than those sent by its antennuniformly in all directions, how far away must you be to be exposed to an intensity considered to be safe? Assume that the power spreads uniformly over the area of a sphere with no complications from absorption or reflection.
### Answer Section
## B
What is the maximum electric field strength at the safe intensity? (Note that early radar units leaked more than modern ones do. This caused identifiable health problems, such as cataracts, for people who worked near them.)
### Answer Section


## Answer Section

from random import randrange
safe = randrange(0.95,1.05,0.01)
leak = randrange(9.5,10.5,0.1)

E = ((leak/(4*pi*safe))**(1/2))*10**2
F = ((2*safe)/((3*10**8)*(8.85*10**-12)))**(1/2)