---
title: Electromagnetic Waves - Production of Electromagnetic
author: ''
date: 23 January 2018
editor: ''
source: https://github.com/openwebwork/webwork-open-problem-library
type: ''
tags:
- powertemperaturemagneticfield
outcomes:
- TBD
assets: ''
---

## Question Section 

a) Calculate the rate in watts at which heat transfer through radiation occurs (almost entirely in the infrared) from(distance,(m^2) of the Earth's surface at night. Assume the emissivity is(emissivity), the temperature of the Earth is(T_earth ^circ(C), and that of outer space is(T_space,(K).
 
b) Compare the intensity of this radiation with that coming to the Earth from the Sun during the day, which averages about(radiation,(Wm^2), only half of which is absorbed.
 
c) What is the maximum magnetic field strength in the outgoing radiation, assuming it is a continuous wave?
(T)

## A
Calculate the rate in watts at which heat transfer through radiation occurs (almost entirely in the infrared) from(distance,(m^2) of the Earth's surface at night. Assume the emissivity is(emissivity), the temperature of the Earth is(T_earth ^circ(C), and that of outer space is(T_space,(K).
### Answer Section
## B
Compare the intensity of this radiation with that coming to the Earth from the Sun during the day, which averages about(radiation,(Wm^2), only half of which is absorbed.
### Answer Section
## C
What is the maximum magnetic field strength in the outgoing radiation, assuming it is a continuous wave?
### Answer Section
## D
from(distance,(m^2) of the Earth's surface at night. Assume the emissivity is(emissivity), the temperature of the Earth is(T_earth ^circ(C), and that of outer space is(T_space,(K).
### Answer Section


## Answer Section

from random import randrange
distance = randrange(0.9,1.1,0.1)
emissivity = randrange(0.85,0.9,0.01)
T_earth = randrange(14,16,1)
T_space = randrange(2.5,2.7,0.1)
radiation = randrange(775,825,25)

E = (5.67*10**-8)*emissivity*distance*((T_space**4)-((T_earth+273.15)**4))
F = ((E*-1)/(radiation/2))*10**2
G = (((2*(4*pi*10**-7)*(E*-1))/(3*10**8))**(1/2))*10**6