---
title: Optics
topic: 'Dispersion: The Rainbow and Prisms'
author: Urone et. al
date: February 2018
editor: ''
source: https://github.com/openwebwork/webwork-open-problem-library
template_version: 1.1
type: ''
difficulty:
- TBD
randomization:
- TBD
taxonomy:
- TBD
tags:
- geometriclawlightopticsrayreflectionrefractionSnell
outcomes:
- TBD
assets: ''
---

## Question Section 

<b>
a) A narrow beam of light containing yellow(580)(nm) and green(550)(nm) wavelengths goes from polystyrene to air, striking the surface at a(theta_incident_degrees^circ) incident angle. What is the angle between the colors when they emerge? The index of refraction in polystyrene for yellow light is(n_yellow) and for green light is(n_green).
ans_rule(40) &#176;

## A
A narrow beam of light containing yellow(580)(nm) and green(550)(nm) wavelengths goes from polystyrene to air, striking the surface at a(theta_incident_degrees^circ) incident angle. What is the angle between the colors when they emerge? The index of refraction in polystyrene for yellow light is(n_yellow) and for green light is(n_green).
### Answer Section
## C
incident angle. What is the angle between the colors when they emerge? The index of refraction in polystyrene for yellow light is(n_yellow) and for green light is(n_green).
### Answer Section


## Answer Section

from random import randrange
n_air = 1
n_green = 1.493
n_yellow = 1.492
delta_x = sprintf("%0.2f", 1)
delta_xSI = delta_x*10**-3
theta_incident_degrees = sprintf("%0.1f", randrange(65,70,0.1))
theta_incident_rads = theta_incident_degrees*(pi/180)

theta_critical_green_rads = asin((n_air/n_green)*sin(theta_incident_rads))
theta_critical_green_degrees = theta_critical_green_rads*(180/pi)
theta_critical_yellow_rads = asin((n_air/n_yellow)*sin(theta_incident_rads))
theta_critical_yellow_degrees = theta_critical_yellow_rads*(180/pi)

delta_theta_critical_degrees = theta_critical_yellow_degrees-theta_critical_green_degrees
distanceSI = (delta_xSI)/(tan(theta_critical_yellow_rads)-tan(theta_critical_green_rads))